Building Our Own MSF Module
Even the most unskilled programmer
can build a custom MSF module.
The Ruby language and
exploit structure are clear,
straightforward and very
similar to Python.
To show how this works, we will port our
SyncBreeze Python exploit
to the Metasploit format, using an
existing exploit in the framework
as a template and copying it
to the established folder structure
under the home directory
of the root user.
To begin, we will update
the header information,
including the name
of the module,
its description,
author,
and external references.
In the next section, we will
select the default options.
In this case, we will verify that
EXITFUNC is set to “thread”…
and specify the bad characters we
found while developing the exploit.
Finally, in the Targets section, we will
specify the version of SyncBreeze…
along with the address of
the JMP ESP instruction…
and the offset used to overwrite EIP.
Next, we will update the check function,
which is done by performing a HTTP GET
request to the root URL.
On a vulnerable system, the
result contains the text
“Sync Breeze Enterprise v10.0.28”.
The final section is the exploit itself.
First, we will create the exploit string,
which uses the offset and the memory
address for the JMP ESP instruction
along with a NOP sled and the payload.
The second part is sending the exploit,
which is done through
an HTTP POST request
using the login URL as
in the original exploit.
We will also populate the HTTP POST
variable username with the exploit string:
Putting all the parts together gives us a
complete Metasploit exploit module
for the SyncBreeze
Enterprise vulnerability.
With the exploit complete, we can start
Metasploit and search for it.
We notice a search for syncbreeze
now contains three results
and that the last result is ours.
We’ll choose a payload,
set up the required parameters,
and perform a vulnerability check.
Finally, we launch our exploit to
gain a reverse shell.
Excellent. It’s working perfectly.
We have a shell thanks to
our new Metasploit exploit.